A little girl named Abigail
turned four years old.
She spent her birthday that birthday,
at least 50 days
before that held hostage by Hamas.
Today, she's free.
And Jill
and I, together,
as so many Americans, are praying for
the fact that she is going to be
all right.
You know, she's free
and she's in Israel now.
And so those who are now wrapping Abigail
in loving care,
the supportive services she needs.
She's been through a terrible trauma.
You know,
her mom was killed in front of her
when it
when a kibbutz
was attacked by Hamas terrorists
on October 7th.
Abigail ran to her dad there,
who then was gunned
down, gunned down as well,
while using his body
to shield little Abigail.
She then ran to a neighbor for help
where they were all taken hostage.
That entire house and neighbors
were taken hostage by Hamas
and held for 50 days.
What she endured is unthinkable.
Abigail was among 13 hostages
released today from Gaza.
Under that brokered and sustained,
though intensive U.S. diplomacy.
She's now safely in Israel
and we continue to press
and expect four additional Americans
will be released as well.
We will not stop working
until every hostage is returned
to their loved ones.
As I said
when I spoke about this deal on Friday,
this has been the product
of a lot of hard work
and weeks of personal engagement
for me and my team.
We have been in close contact
with the leaders of Qatar,
Egypt and Israel,
speaking with each one of them repeatedly
over the past few weeks
to help secure this deal.
We spoke again yesterday
with the emir of Qatar.
I owe special
thanks to in order to keep the hostages
release on track
and push for Abigail
to be part of this release.
And I'll be speaking again shortly
with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu.
And we will continue
to remain personally engaged,
personally engaged to see that
this deal
is fully implemented
and work to extend the deal as well.
For weeks,
I've been advocating a pause
in the fighting
for two purposes
to increase
the assistance,
get into Gaza civilians who need help
and to facilitate release of hostages.
We know that innocent children
in Gaza are suffering greatly as well
because this war
that Hamas has unleashed
is so has such consequences.
Thousands have been killed
and from the earliest days
of this crisis.
I've worked closely
with President Sisi of Egypt,
the Israeli government,
and King Abdullah of Jordan, and leaders
throughout the region to expand
the delivery
of critical humanitarian assistance
to help innocent Palestinians in need.
We're not part of Hamas under this deal.
The fighting in Gaza
has now been paused for three days.
Over that time,
58 hostages have been released,
including two Thai,
Filipino and Russian nationals.
Dozens of families have been reunited.
And we worked urgently,
urgently to take advantage of the pause
to surge aid into Gaza.
We've moved
approximately 200
aid trucks into Gaza each day,
loaded with food,
water, medicine, fuel and cooking gas.
More is needed.
But this deal is delivering
life saving results.
Critically needed aid is going in
and hostages are coming out
and they're still structured
so that it can be extended
to keep building on these results.
That's my goal.
That's our goal to keep this pause
going beyond tomorrow
so that we can continue
to see more hostages
come out
and surge more humanitarian relief
into into those.
And who in need in Gaza.
We've seen
this is a day by day
approach, hour by hour process.
Nothing is guaranteed
and nothing is being taken for granted.
But the proof that this is working
and worth pursuing further
is in every smile
and every grateful tears
we see
on the faces of those families
who are finally getting
back together again.
The proof is little Abigail.
More than 20 other children, 18 years
and younger, have been released.
They've been released
through this deal as well.
They've endured a terrible ordeal.
They can now begin
the long journey toward healing.
I'm going to continue working
with the emir of Qatar,
President Sisi, Egypt,
Prime Minister Netanyahu of Israel,
to do everything possible
to see the hostages are freed.
All the hostages.
I'm grateful for the personal partnership
as we pursued this deal
from each of those men I just mentioned.
As we work together to see the and see
all this implement
and now to try to extend it further.
I continue working with all our partners
to take the hard
but necessary steps
to build an integrated
and more prosperous
and more peaceful future in the region.
A two state solution is the only way
to guarantee
the long term security of both Israelis
and Palestinian people,
to make sure
Israel and Palestinians alike
live in equal measure
of freedom and dignity.
We will not give up on working
toward that goal.
Thank you very much.
Thank God she's home.
I just can't
imagine the enjoyment in it.
I just wish I were there to hold her.
Mr. President.
Do you have an update
on the other Americans
who are being held in any sense
as to when they would be released?
We are hopeful,
but I don't have anything firmly
to tell you at this moment.
So do you expect that
if you are able to use this momentum
to extend the pause,
have you extracted any guarantees
about proof of life for other hostages,
or do you have an expectation
of how much longer you can push this?
Well, look, you know, the deal calls for
for every
for every ten hostages
released to extend another day.
So I'm hopeful this is not the end
that's going to continue.
But we don't know. And
but I get a sense that
all the players in the region,
even the neighbors who aren't
and we have been directly involved
now are looking for a way to end this.
So the hostages are all released.
And Hamas is just completely,
how can I say
no longer in control
of any portion of Gaza?
Do they have control
of all of the hostages?
Are there
still other militant groups
that you have to deal with?
We think there are probably other
militant groups. We're not certain.
Mr. President, Mr.
President, how is Abigail doing?
What's her physical condition?
Well, I haven't gotten that information.
I just want to let you know immediately
they were going to cross into Egypt.
As you recall,
that was a group
about an older, non-American,
elderly, elderly woman is very sick
who was in need of immediate
medical help.
So they arranged to cross
directly into Israel
to be able to take her to a hospital.
All I know is that she was being held.
I don't know.
I haven't seen a photograph.
I've just been
in communication with my team.
But she is safely ensconced in Israel.
But there's a lot more work to be done.
How many days would you like
to see the hospital on board?
I would like to see
us move to a point where we were able to.
Well, let me put it this way.
I'd like to see the pause go on.
As long as prisoners kept coming out.
All right.
Thank you all so very much.
I know.
You know, we have to call you.
I know
you say why
she called me
with only 10 minutes or so and
I said, that's No.
Two sided because we didn't know.
I didn't want to be having
this press conference
if they weren't physically
even when they were
in the Red Cross ambulance.
I didn't want to do it
because they were not out there.
They were still in Gaza.
So I don't thank you enough
and thanks for your patience.
And I know we're here.
All right.
So I was doing okay.
Happy hour as you guys.